# bSSG
A simple, powerful static site generator written in Python. You can write templates in HTML and write Markdown for your content.

Can also be described as: "a complex find-and-replace program combined with a Markdown renderer and file copier masquerading as a static site generator"; this is also accurate.

## Dependencies
You will need Python 3, Python-Markdown, and Watchdog to run this. On Windows, `setup.py` will automatically install these dependencies for you. On Linux, it is recommended to install the dependencies through your package manager, usually in a package called `python-markdown` and `python-watchdog` or similar.

## Installation
Download or `git clone` this repository. Install bSSG by using `python setup.py install`. For Linux users, it is recommended to install the program dependencies through your package manager rather than through pip, see above. Once they are installed, run `python setup.py install`.

## Site Generation
Create the folders `templates/` and `content/` anywhere, then create `template.html` in the `templates/` folder. This will act as the default template for all pages. Once you have written that, create a `???.md` file in `content/` (give it any name you want instead of ???) and write a short bit of Markdown text to verify that this is working. Finally, run `bssg-generate` while in the folder containing the `templates/` and `content/` folder. The generated static site will be in the new `generated-site/` folder.

## Watching
Running `bssg-watch` will run `bssg-generate` whenever content or templates were updated.

## Custom features

### Both templates and Markdown
These features can be used in both an HTML template and your Markdown content.

- `{subst:???}`: Replace ??? with the name of a .md file in content (excluding the .md) and it will copy that file into the page.

- `{subst:title}`: Special substitute, substitutes in the page title. You can override the automatic titler with the title option (see below).

- `{subst:content}`: Special substitute, substitutes in the current page content.

- `{subst!???}`: Substitutes itself with `{subst:???}` without actually substituting ???, useful for writing documentation.

- `{option!???=???}`: Substitutes itself with `{option:???=???}`, similar to above.

### Markdown only
These features can only be used in Markdown content.

- `{option:template=???}`: Replace ??? with the name of a .html template (excluding the .html) and the page will use that template instead of the default `template.html`. Recommended to have at the top of the page before any content, will hide itself automatically.

- `{option:title=???}`: Replace ??? with the new title you want for your page and `{subst:title}` will update from the automatic title to what you set. Recommended to have at the top of the page, will hide itself automatically. Does not change where the page will be generated in.

### Other features
- Prepending a Markdown file with `_` (eg. `_navbar.md` instead of `navbar.md`) will prevent it from being generated by bSSG unless another page substitutes it in. This is useful in navbars or headers where you do not need it to generate its own HTML file.